Champion program blog (#390)
ropensci/roweb3: content/blog/2022-09-23-launch-champions-program/index.md

---
title: Announcing the rOpenSci Champions Program! 
author: Yanina Bellini Saibene
date: '2022-09-23T00:00:01-07:00'
slug: launch-champions-program
tags:
  - community
  - help
  - beginner
  - welcome
feature: true  
# description: 
tweet: "" 
---

[Entrada en español](/blog/2022/09/23/launch-champions-program-es/)

> 

Reviewer: Should there be a short intro? Not sure

> ## We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!

Reviewer: this could be the introduction and this way all the h3 in the remainder of the post (`###`) could become h2 (`##`). 

```suggestion
> We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!
```

### Why a Champions Program?

Champion programs are designed to identify, recognize, and reward passionate community members.

> At rOpenSci, we recognize that there is a dismaying lack of diversity in the ecosystem of research software and open source communities. The R Community is no exception; its developers are overwhelmingly white, male, and from a handful of countries. That lack of diversity is potentially detrimental to the sustainability, utility and productivity of projects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At rOpenSci, we recognize that there is a dismaying lack of diversity in the ecosystem of research software and open source communities. The R Community is no exception; its developers are overwhelmingly white, male, and from a handful of countries. That appalling lack of diversity is potentially detrimental to the sustainability, utility and productivity of projects. 
```

just to underline again we find this lack of diversity very wrong

Author: I used _appalling_ in my first version and was requested to look for other options.  I'm ok with adding another word that helps with that message, but here my vocabulary is short.

We also know that communities of practice can drive meaningful change. We understand the importance of supporting a diverse cohort of community leaders and contributors to all aspects of research software creation as they strive to transform our ecosystem for the better.

rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.

That is why this program focuses __on people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

> ### What is our champions program like?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What is our champions program?
```

> We have developed a 12-month-long cohort-based training and personal mentorship program. Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training and personal mentorship**. Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 
```

Reviewer: This way it is clearer the training is not 12 month long

> After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: create a new package, take over the maintenance of an existing rOpenSci package, go through the review process with an R package they already have developed, or be a reviewer on our peer review system.  Other Champions activities include the chance to deliver a talk, write blog posts and teach other community members. During this stage, they will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: 

- create a new package, take over the maintenance of an existing rOpenSci package, 
- go through the review process with an R package they already have developed, 
- or be a reviewer on our peer review system.  

Other Champions activities include the chance to deliver a talk, write blog posts and teach other community members. During this stage, they will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.
```

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.

> You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).
```

> ### How to apply

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### How to apply?
```

Please, [fill out the application form]() ([this template shows the information we will require in the form]()) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

#### Application Timeline

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Application opens|
|Oct 24, 2022|Application Community Call|

> |Nov 1, 2022|Special co-working hours|

Reviewer: link?

Author: I don't have the Airtable form yet.  I will add it when we build it. The template is ready on the champions space on the website. I have that link.

Reviewer: i mean to the coworking event :-)

|Nov 7, 2022|Call for applications closed|
|Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected champions.|

## Do you have any questions?

> Please, contact our Community Manager [by email](mailto: yabellini@ropensci.org). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please, contact our Community Manager [by email](mailto:yabellini@ropensci.org). 
```

We will have a [Community Call on October 24]() and a [Coworking space on November 1]() to help you with your application.

> ## We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :)
```

Reviewer: Also I am in favor of smileys with noses :-D :o) ;-) but it's not important :joy:

rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.

That is why this program focuses __on people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

### What is our champions program?

We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training and personal mentorship**. Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 

After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: 

> - create a new package, take over the maintenance of an existing rOpenSci package, 

Author: ```suggestion
- create a new package, 
- take over the maintenance of an existing rOpenSci package, 
```

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.

You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).

### How to apply?

Please, [fill out the application form]() ([this template shows the information we will require in the form]()) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

#### Application Timeline

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Application opens|
|Oct 24, 2022|Application Community Call|
|Nov 1, 2022|Special co-working hours|
|Nov 7, 2022|Call for applications closed|
|Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected champions.|

## Do you have any questions?

Please, contact our Community Manager [by email](mailto:yabellini@ropensci.org). 

We will have a [Community Call on October 24]() and a [Coworking space on November 1]() to help you with your application.

> We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :)

Author: ```suggestion
We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :-D
```

---
title: Announcing the rOpenSci Champions Program! 
author: Yanina Bellini Saibene
date: '2022-09-23T00:00:01-07:00'
slug: launch-champions-program
tags:
  - community
  - help
  - beginner
  - welcome
feature: true  
# description: 
tweet: "" 
---

[Entrada en español](/blog/2022/09/23/launch-champions-program-es/)

> We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!

> ### Why a Champions Program?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Why a Champions Program?
```

Champion programs are designed to identify, recognize, and reward passionate community members.

> At rOpenSci, we recognize that there is a dismaying lack of diversity in the ecosystem of research software and open source communities. The R Community is no exception; its developers are overwhelmingly white, male, and from a handful of countries. That lack of diversity is potentially detrimental to the sustainability, utility and productivity of projects. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At rOpenSci, we recognize that there is a dismaying lack of diversity in the ecosystem of research software and open source communities. The R Community is no exception; its developers are overwhelmingly white, male, and from a handful of countries. This disappointing lack of diversity is potentially detrimental to the sustainability, utility and productivity of projects. 
```

We also know that communities of practice can drive meaningful change. We understand the importance of supporting a diverse cohort of community leaders and contributors to all aspects of research software creation as they strive to transform our ecosystem for the better.

> rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](https://ropensci.org/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built by and for all groups.
```

> That is why this program focuses __on people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
That is why this program focuses on __people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.
```

> ### What is our champions program?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What is our champions program?
```

> We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training and personal mentorship**. Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training, project development, and personal mentorship**. 

Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 
```

After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: 

- create a new package, 
- take over the maintenance of an existing rOpenSci package, 
- go through the review process with an R package they already have developed, 

> - or be a reviewer on our peer review system.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- or be a reviewer for our peer review system.  
```

> Other Champions activities include the chance to deliver a talk, write blog posts and teach other community members. During this stage, they will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Other Champions activities include options for delivering a talk, writing blog posts and teaching other community members. During this stage, Champions will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.
```

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.

You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).

> ### How to apply?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to apply?
```

> Please, [fill out the application form]() ([this template shows the information we will require in the form]()) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Please, fill out the [application form]() (this [template]() shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.
```

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

> #### Application Timeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Application Timeline
```

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|

> |Sep 23, 2022|Call for Application opens|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Applications opens|
```

> |Oct 24, 2022|Application Community Call|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Oct 24, 2022|Applications Community Call|
```

> |Nov 1, 2022|Special co-working hours|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Nov 1, 2022|Special [co-working](/events/coworking-2022-11/) hours|
```

|Nov 7, 2022|Call for applications closed|
|Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected champions.|

## Do you have any questions?

Please, contact our Community Manager [by email](mailto:yabellini@ropensci.org). 

> We will have a [Community Call on October 24]() and a [Coworking space on November 1]() to help you with your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will have a [Community Call on October 24]() and a [Coworking space on November 1](/events/coworking-2022-11/) to help you with your application.
```

> We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :-D

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**We look forward to meeting all of you passionate Champions out there :-D**
```

---
title: Announcing the rOpenSci Champions Program! 
author: Yanina Bellini Saibene
date: '2022-09-23T00:00:01-07:00'
slug: launch-champions-program
tags:
  - community
  - help
  - beginner
  - welcome
feature: true  
# description: 
tweet: "" 
---

[Entrada en español](/blog/2022/09/23/launch-champions-program-es/)

> > We are thrilled to launch our Champions program!

Author: ```suggestion
> We are thrilled to launch our Champions program pilot!
```

We also know that communities of practice can drive meaningful change. We understand the importance of supporting a diverse cohort of community leaders and contributors to all aspects of research software creation as they strive to transform our ecosystem for the better.

The rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built __by and for all groups.__

That is why this program focuses on __people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.

> 

Author: We are looking for people that work in STEAM fields, from anywhere in the world, who already have development knowledge with the R language.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
We are looking for people that work in STEAM fields, from anywhere in the world, who already have development knowledge with the R language. 
```

## What is our champions program?

We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training, project development, and personal mentorship**. 

Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 

After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: 

- create a new package, 
- go through the review process with an R package they already have developed, 
- or be a reviewer for our peer review system.  

Other Champions activities include options for delivering a talk, writing blog posts and teaching other community members. During this stage, Champions will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
We are looking six to nine Champions for this first pilot. We expect to co-create the rOpenSci Champion program with the selected applicants and influence future editions with their experience and feedback.

We look forward to receiving many applications and are committed to directing non-selected applicants towards other ways in which they can contribute to rOpenSci.
```

Other Champions activities include options for delivering a talk, writing blog posts and teaching other community members. During this stage, Champions will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.
We are looking six to nine Champions for this first pilot. We expect to co-create the rOpenSci Champion program with the selected applicants and influence future editions with their experience and feedback.

We look forward to receiving many applications and are committed to directing non-selected applicants towards other ways in which they can contribute to rOpenSci.
You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).

## How to apply?

Please, fill out the [application form]() (this [template]() shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

### Application Timeline

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Applications opens|
|Oct 24, 2022|Applications Community Call|

> |Nov 1, 2022|Special [co-working](/events/coworking-2022-11/) hours|

Author: ```suggestion
|Nov 1, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Co-working hours](/events/coworking-2022-11/): receive help with your application to the champions program. |
```

We also know that communities of practice can drive meaningful change. We understand the importance of supporting a diverse cohort of community leaders and contributors to all aspects of research software creation as they strive to transform our ecosystem for the better.

The rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built __by and for all groups.__

That is why this program focuses on __people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.
We are looking for people that work in STEAM fields, from anywhere in the world, who already have development knowledge with the R language. 

> ## What is our champions program?

Author: ```suggestion

## What is our champions program?
```

- or be a reviewer for our peer review system.  

Other Champions activities include options for delivering a talk, writing blog posts and teaching other community members. During this stage, Champions will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.
We are looking six to nine Champions for this first pilot. We expect to co-create the rOpenSci Champion program with the selected applicants and influence future editions with their experience and feedback.

We look forward to receiving many applications and are committed to directing non-selected applicants towards other ways in which they can contribute to rOpenSci.
You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).

## How to apply?

Please, fill out the [application form]() (this [template]() shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

### Application Timeline

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Applications opens|

> |Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] Community Call| -  Tips for submitting your champions program application

Author: ```suggestion
|Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Community Call](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) -  Tips for submitting your champions program application
```

> |Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Community Call](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) -  Tips for submitting your champions program application

Author: ```suggestion
|Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Community Call](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) -  Tips for submitting your champions program application |
```

|Nov 1, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Co-working hours](/events/coworking-2022-11/): receive help with your application to the champions program. |
|Nov 7, 2022|Call for applications closed|
|Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected champions.|

## Do you have any questions?

Please, contact our Community Manager [by email](mailto:yabellini@ropensci.org). 

> We will have a [Community Call on October 24]() and a [Coworking space on November 1](/events/coworking-2022-11/) to help you with your application.

Author: ```suggestion
We will have a [Community Call on October 24](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) and a [Coworking space on November 1](/events/coworking-2022-11/) to help you with your application.
```

We also know that communities of practice can drive meaningful change. We understand the importance of supporting a diverse cohort of community leaders and contributors to all aspects of research software creation as they strive to transform our ecosystem for the better.

The rOpenSci Champion Program [is part of a series of activities and projects we are carrying out to ensure our research software serves everyone in our communities](/blog/2021/12/20/inclusive-leadership-program/), which means that it needs to be sustainable and open, and built __by and for all groups.__

That is why this program focuses on __people who belong to groups that are historically and systematically excluded__ from the open software and research software communities and who are interested in contributing to rOpenSci and the broader open source and research software communities.
We are looking for people that work in STEAM fields, from anywhere in the world, who already have development knowledge with the R language. 

> ## What is our champions program?

Reviewer 2: This is where my nit-pickiness comes out in force! 

Let's use "Champions Program" as a title throughout (right now sometimes it's "Champions Program", sometimes "champions program", sometimes "Champions program"
```suggestion
## What is our Champions Program?
```

We have developed a **12-month-long program including cohort-based training, project development, and personal mentorship**. 

Champions will participate in a 6-week long cohort-based training on a) planning and facilitating engaging and inclusive workshops to support participants’ success, b) knowledge of various channels through which new members can engage in and contribute to rOpenSci and R projects, and c) technical skills in software development and review. 

After training, Champions will develop their project, which can be one of these options: 

- create a new package, 
- go through the review process with an R package they already have developed, 
- or be a reviewer for our peer review system.  

Other Champions activities include options for delivering a talk, writing blog posts and teaching other community members. During this stage, Champions will receive personal and group mentorship through meetings with mentors, quarterly cohort calls, Community Manager support, and a dedicated channel on rOpenSci Slack workspace.

We will provide a $1000 (USD) stipend to the selected community champions.

> We are looking six to nine Champions for this first pilot. We expect to co-create the rOpenSci Champion program with the selected applicants and influence future editions with their experience and feedback.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are looking for six to nine Champions for this first pilot. We expect to co-create the rOpenSci Champions Program with the selected applicants and influence future editions with their experience and feedback.
```

We look forward to receiving many applications and are committed to directing non-selected applicants towards other ways in which they can contribute to rOpenSci.
You can see all details on our [Champions Program webpage](/champions/).

## How to apply?

> Please, fill out the [application form]() (this [template]() shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

Author: ```suggestion
Please, fill out the [application form](https://airtable.com/shrAsYlSXU0coJ5Ld) (this [template](/champions/file/champions_template.md) shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.
```

> Please, fill out the [application form](https://airtable.com/shrAsYlSXU0coJ5Ld) (this [template](/champions/file/champions_template.md) shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please, fill out the [application form](https://airtable.com/shrAsYlSXU0coJ5Ld) (this [template](/champions/file/champions_template) shows the information we require) before __Friday, Nov 7, 2022__.
```

Author: If we remove, the .md from the name of the template, the file will open? because the preview of the webpage gives a 404 error.

Reviewer: in the webpage I had forgotten `/champions/`, this link will work.

The md file does not exist anymore in the built website actually, as Hugo renders all markdown files from content to HTML.

Author: Thanks so much :-) I'm learning a lot.

The application forms have to be filled in _English_.

> ### Application Timeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Application timeline
```

|Date|Event|
|----|-----|
|Sep 23, 2022|Call for Applications opens|

> |Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Community Call](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) -  Tips for submitting your champions program application |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Oct 24, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Community Call](/commcalls/oct2022-champions/) -  Tips for submitting your Champions Program application |
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Need to remove empty line to fix table
```suggestion
```

> |Nov 1, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Co-working hours](/events/coworking-2022-11/): receive help with your application to the champions program. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Nov 1, 2022| [OPTIONAL] [Co-working hours](/events/coworking-2022-11/): receive help with your application to the Champions Program |
```

|Nov 7, 2022|Call for applications closed|

> |Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected champions.|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Nov 25, 2022|Communication with selected Champions |
```
